# Reflections

## Participation

- 3 groups 6-8 people in size.
- Each group had a brainhack committee member and a python/programming enthusiast/expert

## What Happened

- some groups were quiet from the onset and didn't have questions to open up discussion
- one group had the brainhack member share their screen and run through the lesson
- another group had questions about what editor they should use (spyder/jupyter notebooks)
- some participants did not know they could edit their google colab notebooks
  - they were afraid or unsure if they commented in their colab notebooks, that the
    changes would affect everyone else? Additionally, they were unsure how to copy,
    download, and choose the format from options provided for re-use later.
- some participants are working ahead, and some are sticking to the schedule
- There seemed to be questions on how to interpret different colors (something
  specific to colab but not necessarily a feature only found in colab)
  for say 'string' versus string. (colors can represent a data type)
- There was also questions about how a variables value can be modified.
  - For example: weight_kg = 100, what happens to weight_kg when I run --
    weight_kg * 2.2 = weight_lb?
- participants also ran notebook cells out of order to discover that order matters.
  - [see here for video on drawbacks of notebooks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7jiPeIFXb6U)

## Take-Away(s)

- offer more guidance on how participants can interact/use their google colab notebooks
- during discussion, try having one of the group leaders or participants share their screen
  to manipulate the notebook used in the episode to encourage question generation.
- have brainhack members generate some questions as they work through that week's material
  - they can pose those questions to their groups for that week to help start discussion.
  - openly isolate an aspect of the lesson and call on people (after asking for
    volunteers) to explain parts of code
    - make up something new with their guidance to see if their understanding
      of the code replicates.
    - If it doesn't problem-solve with the group to figure out what the error was,
      and why it happened
- find balance on how to allow for exploration while hitting the major lesson points for the week.
  - for example, if someone is curious about the phrase "everything is an object in python", we do
    not want to spend the next 30 minutes delving into the topic if one of the episode objectives is
    "perform operations on arrays of data", but we also do not wish to crush the curiosity by dismissing the question, a middle ground of acknowledging the question, and perhaps redirecting
    the participant to stay after discussion of the episode to have a fuller answer to their question.
  - some individuals may be very practically oriented to accomplish a specific task and others may
    be more exploratory in their learning
